.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\" Adduser and this manpage are copyright 1995 by Ted Hajek
.\"
.\" This is free software; see the GNU General Public Lisence version 2
.\" or later for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty.
.TH "adduser.conf" 5 "Version VERSION" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
/etc/adduser.conf \- configuration file for 
.B adduser(8) 
and 
.BR addgroup(8) .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file 
.I /etc/adduser.conf
contains defaults for the programs
.B adduser(8)
, 
.B addgroup(8)
,
.B deluser(8)
and 
.BR delgroup(8) .
Each line holds a single value pair in the form
.IR option " = " value .
Double or single quotes are allowed around the value, as is whitespace
around the equals sign.  Comment lines must have a hash sign (#) in the
first line.

The valid configuration options are:
.TP
\fBDSHELL\fP
The login shell to be used for all new users.  Defaults to
.IR /bin/bash .
.TP
\fBDHOME\fP
The directory in which new home directories should be created.
Defaults to
.IR /home .
.TP
\fBGROUPHOMES\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
the home directories will be created as
.IR /home/[groupname]/user .
Defaults to
.IR no .
.TP
\fBLETTERHOMES\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then the home directories created will have an
extra directory inserted which is the first letter of the loginname.
For example:
.IR /home/u/user .
Defaults to
.IR no .
.TP
\fBSKEL\fP
The directory from which skeletal user configuration files should be
copied.  Defaults to
.IR /etc/skel .
.TP
.BR FIRST_SYSTEM_UID " and " LAST_SYSTEM_UID
specify an inclusive range of UIDs from which system UIDs can be
dynamically allocated. Default to
.IR 100 " - " 999 .
.TP
.BR FIRST_UID " and " LAST_UID
specify an inclusive range of UIDs from which normal user's UIDs can
be dynamically allocated. Default to
.IR 1000 " - " 29999 .
.TP
\fBUSERGROUPS\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then each created user will be given their own group to use.  If this
is
.IR no ,
then each created user will be placed in the group whose GID is
\fBUSERS_GID\fP (see below).  The default is
.IR yes .
.TP
\fBUSERS_GID\fP
If \fBUSERGROUPS\fP is
.IR no ,
then \fBUSERS_GID\fP is the GID given to all newly-created users.  The
default value is
.IR 100 .
.TP
\fBDIR_MODE\fP
If set to a valid value (e.g. 0755 or 755), directories created will have
the specified permissions. Otherwise 0755 is used as default.
.TP
\fBSETGID_HOME\fP
If this is set to
.IR yes ,
then home directories for users with their own group (
.IR USERGROUPS=yes
) will have the setgid bit set. This was the default setting for adduser
versions << 3.13. Unfortunately it has some bad side effects, so we no
longer do this per default. If you want it nevertheless you can still
activate it here.
.TP
\fBQUOTAUSER\fP
If set to a nonempty value, new users will have quotas copied from
that user.  The default is empty.
.TP
\fBUSER_REGEX\fB
User names are checked against this regular expression. If the name
doesn't match this regexp, user creation is refused unless
--force-badname is set. With --force-badname set, only weak checks are
performed. The default is the most conservative ^[a-z][-a-z0-9]*\$.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/adduser.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
adduser(8), addgroup(8), deluser(8), delgroup(8)

